[docs] Re-org topics in Admin API section (#8375)
apache/pulsar: site2/docs/admin-api-persistent-topics.md

---
id: admin-api-persistent-topics
title: Manage topics
sidebar_label: Topics
---

Pulsar has persistent and non-persistent topics. Persistent topic is a logical endpoint for publishing and consuming messages. The topic name structure for persistent topics is:

```shell
persistent://tenant/namespace/topic
```

Non-persistent topics are used in applications that only consume real-time published messages and do not need persistent guarantee. In this way, it reduces message-publish latency by removing overhead of persisting messages. The topic name structure for non-persistent topics is:

```shell
non-persistent://tenant/namespace/topic
```
## Manage topic resources
Whether it is persistent or non-persistent topic, you can obtain the topic resources through `pulsar-admin` tool, REST API and Java.

### List of topics

You can get the list of topics under a given namespace in the following ways.

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->
<!--pulsar-admin-->

```shell
$ pulsar-admin topics list \
  my-tenant/my-namespace
```

<!--REST API-->

> {@inject: endpoint|GET|/admin/v2/topics/:tenant/:namespace|operation/getList}

Reviewer: I don't think we have the `topics` endpoint to get all the topics. Actually, there have two steps on the client-side, the client will get the persistent topics and non-persistent topics then combine the result at the client-side.
I am not sure how to add two REST API endpoints. @tuteng Any ideas?

Reviewer 2: Please refer to `NON-PERSISTENT TOPIC` http://pulsar.apache.org/admin-rest-api/?version=2.6.1&apiversion=v2#operation/getList and `PERSISTENT TOPIC` http://pulsar.apache.org/admin-rest-api/?version=2.6.1&apiversion=v2#operation/getList

Author: {@inject: endpoint|GET|/admin/v2/:schema/:tenant/:namespace|operation/getList}

<!--Java-->
```java
String namespace = "my-tenant/my-namespace";
admin.topics().getList(namespace);
```
<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

### Grant permission

You can grant permissions on a client role to perform specific actions on a given topic in the following ways.

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->
<!--pulsar-admin-->
```shell
$ pulsar-admin topics grant-permission \
  --actions produce,consume --role application1 \
  persistent://test-tenant/ns1/tp1 \
```

<!--REST API-->

> {@inject: endpoint|POST|/admin/v2/topics/:tenant/:namespace/:topic/permissions/:role|operation/grantPermissionsOnTopic}

Reviewer: similar issue with the previous comments. We don't have the `topics` endpoint. All the following REST API endpoint has the same issue.

String topic = "persistent://my-tenant/my-namespace/my-topic";
String role = "test-role";
admin.topics().revokePermissions(topic, role);
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

### Delete topic

You can delete a topic in the following ways. You cannot delete a topic if any active subscription or producers is connected to the topic.

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->
<!--pulsar-admin-->
```shell
$ pulsar-admin topics delete \
  persistent://test-tenant/ns1/tp1 \
```

<!--REST API-->
{@inject: endpoint|DELETE|/admin/v2/topics/:tenant/:namespace/:topic|operation/deleteTopic}

<!--Java-->
```java
String topic = "persistent://my-tenant/my-namespace/my-topic";
admin.topics().delete(topic);
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

### Unload topic

You can unload a topic in the following ways.
<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->
<!--pulsar-admin-->
```shell
$ pulsar-admin topics unload \
  persistent://test-tenant/ns1/tp1 \
```

<!--REST API-->
{@inject: endpoint|PUT|/admin/v2/topics/:tenant/:namespace/:topic/unload|operation/unloadTopic}

<!--Java-->
```java
String topic = "persistent://my-tenant/my-namespace/my-topic";
admin.topics().unload(topic);
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

### Get stats

> You can view the following statistics of a given non-partitioned topic.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can check the following statistics of a given non-partitioned topic.
```
check through the whole updates

  -   **msgRateIn**: The sum of all local and replication publishers' publish rates in messages per second.

  -   **msgThroughputIn**: The sum of all local and replication publishers' publish rates in bytes per second.

  -   **msgRateOut**: The sum of all local and replication consumers' dispatch rates in messages per second.

  -   **msgThroughputOut**: The sum of all local and replication consumers' dispatch rates in bytes per second.

>   -   **averageMsgSize**: The average size(in bytes) of messages published within the last interval.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  -   **averageMsgSize**: The average size (in bytes) of messages published within the last interval.
```

  -   **storageSize**: The sum of the ledgers' storage size for this topic. The space used to store the messages for the topic.

  -   **publishers**: The list of all local publishers into the topic. The list ranges from zero to thousands.

      -   **msgRateIn**: The total rate of messages published by this publisher in messages per second.

      -   **msgThroughputIn**: The total throughput of the messages published by this publisher in bytes per second.

      -   **averageMsgSize**: The average message size in bytes from this publisher within the last interval.

      -   **producerId**: The internal identifier for this producer on this topic.

      -   **producerName**: The internal identifier for this producer, generated by the client library.

      -   **address**: The IP address and source port for the connection of this producer.

      -   **connectedSince**: The timestamp when this producer is created or reconnected last time.

  -   **subscriptions**: The list of all local subscriptions to the topic.

      -   **my-subscription**: The name of this subscription. It is defined by the client.

>           -   **msgRateOut**: The total rate of messages delivered on this subscription (msg/s).

Reviewer 3: use the same expression: use "msg/s" and (bytes/s) or in use "in messages per second" "in bytes per second"

          -   **msgBacklog**: The number of messages in the subscription backlog.

          -   **type**: The subscription type.

          -   **msgRateExpired**: The rate at which messages were discarded instead of dispatched from this subscription due to TTL.
          
          -   **lastExpireTimestamp**: The timestamp of the last message expire execution.
          
          -   **lastConsumedFlowTimestamp**: The timestamp of the last flow command received. 
          
          -   **lastConsumedTimestamp**: The latest timestamp of all the consumed timestamp of the consumers.
          
          -   **lastAckedTimestamp**: The latest timestamp of all the acked timestamp of the consumers.

          -   **consumers**: The list of connected consumers for this subscription.

                -   **msgRateOut**: The total rate of messages delivered to the consumer (msg/s).

                -   **msgThroughputOut**: The total throughput delivered to the consumer (bytes/s).

                -   **consumerName**: The internal identifier for this consumer, generated by the client library.

>                 -   **availablePermits**: The number of messages this consumer has space for in the client library's listen queue. `0` means the client library's queue is full and `receive()` isn't being called. A nonzero value means this consumer is ready to be dispatched messages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
                -   **availablePermits**: The number of messages that the consumer has space for in the client library's listen queue. `0` means the client library's queue is full and `receive()` isn't being called. A non-zero value means this consumer is ready for dispatched messages.
```

                -   **unackedMessages**: The number of unacknowledged messages for the consumer.

>                 -   **blockedConsumerOnUnackedMsgs**: The flag to verify if the consumer is blocked due to reaching threshold of the unacked messages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
                -   **blockedConsumerOnUnackedMsgs**: The flag used to verify if the consumer is blocked due to reaching threshold of the unacknowledged messages.
```

                
                -   **lastConsumedTimestamp**: The timestamp when the consumer reads a message the last time. 
          

>                 -   **lastAckedTimestamp**: The timestamp when the consumer acks a message the last time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
                -   **lastAckedTimestamp**: The timestamp when the consumer acknowledges a message the last time.
                
```

  "replication": {}
}
```
To get the status of a topic, you can use the following ways.

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->
<!--pulsar-admin-->
```shell
$ pulsar-admin topics stats \
  persistent://test-tenant/ns1/tp1 \
```

<!--REST API-->
{@inject: endpoint|GET|/admin/v2/topics/:tenant/:namespace/:topic/stats|operation/getStats}

<!--Java-->
```java
String topic = "persistent://my-tenant/my-namespace/my-topic";
admin.topics().getStats(topic);
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

### Get internal stats

You can get the detailed statistics of a topic.

  -   **entriesAddedCounter**: Messages published since this broker loaded this topic.

  -   **numberOfEntries**: The total number of messages being tracked.

  -   **totalSize**: The total storage size in bytes of all messages.

  -   **currentLedgerEntries**: The count of messages written to the ledger that is currently open for writing.

  -   **currentLedgerSize**: The size in bytes of messages written to the ledger that is currently open for writing.

  -   **lastLedgerCreatedTimestamp**: The time when the last ledger is created.

  -   **lastLedgerCreationFailureTimestamp:** The time when the last ledger failed.

>   -   **waitingCursorsCount**: How many cursors are "caught up" and waiting for a new message to be published.

Reviewer 3: The number of cursors that are ....?

  -   **pendingAddEntriesCount**: The number of messages that complete (asynchronous) write requests.

  -   **lastConfirmedEntry**: The ledgerid:entryid of the last message that is written successfully. If the entryid is `-1`, then the ledger is open, yet no entries are written.

  -   **state**: The state of this ledger for writing. The state `LedgerOpened` means that a ledger is open for saving published messages.

  -   **ledgers**: The ordered list of all ledgers for this topic holding messages.

      -   **ledgerId**: Id of this ledger.

      -   **entries**: The total number of entries belong to this ledger.

      -   **size**: The size of messages written to this ledger (in bytes).

      -   **offloaded**: Whether this ledger is offloaded.

  -   **compactedLedger**: The ledgers holding un-acked messages after topic compaction.
 

>       -   **ledgerId**: The Id of this ledger.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      -   **ledgerId**: The ID of this ledger.
```
